My So-Called Bullshit Job as a Management Consultant 
I want to say that I bought it in the San Francisco airport, but during those days, it could’ve just as easily have been Dulles, Heathrow, Oakland, San Jose, Newark, JFK, or any other number of airports. At the time, I was traveling almost weekly, and while I usually have a great head for small details, that era of my life has faded into a blur.
While being in the book put me in the same dubious company as “Right-Wing Radio Talk Show Host” (#82) and “Being Donald Trump” (#11), I’ll admit to being tickled when I saw my job: “Consultant” listed as #27. I should also point out that my parents and my stepfather made the list too, at numbers #54 (Lawyer), #57 (Marriage Counselor) and #92 (University Administrator). At least I’ve outranked them on the list, and they should be so proud of that.
There are some ironies in that last paragraph, feel free to figure out where they are.
The entry for consultant was especially hilarious. To paraphrase: “Your kids won’t be able to tell anyone what you do, but you’ll make good money and get to travel a lot.”
Funny thing about the travel: I was once in a situation where I “did the right thing” as a leader by sending various team members to Spain, France and Sweden, whilst I went to Newark, N.J. Nothing against the people of Newark, but, well, you’re not Madrid, sorry.
Anyway, I couldn’t blame those hypothetical children I’ll never have for not being able to describe to their friends what I do, because it’s not like I have a great idea of what a management consultant does, either. I mean, at a very micro-level, I have a solid idea of what my client expects from me, but it’s not exactly a profession that’s easy to describe at parties. “Re-engineering business value creation systems” doesn’t play well over the cheese plate at a dinner party, especially when I have no idea what that phrase means, exactly — I just know it gives consulting firm CEOs warm fuzzy feelings.
Here’s another, perhaps more comprehensible description: Companies hire management consultants to recommend solutions to problems to help them become more efficient and profitable. But even that’s somewhat vague.
That being said, I do have some “interesting anecdotes” that describe what my job as a management consultant is actually like.
Work in the corporate world long enough and you’ll come across a situation where you’ll listen to someone talk, and find yourself in awe at what’s coming out of their mouth; in awe that an allegedly educated person can spout such bullshit.